# Automotive_Inudstry
The Treemap visual showed the count, percentage, and the number of unique models for each brand. The Ford is most popular brand with 18,362 cars, 18.64%  market share and having 22 unique car models.  Second popular is Volkswagen with 14,893 cars, 15.12%, and 27 unique models followed by Vauxhall and Mercedes-Benz both have nearly similar counts 13,256 and 13,137, respectively, but Mercedes-Benz has more unique models 27. This visualisation is useful to UK automotive industry in identifying market insights, inventory management, brand preference by consumer and developing brand models which are high in demand with improving the technology and enhancing the model with new features.
The line chart was used to see the trend of average price of car over the years. In the initial year(1998-2010) the average price was very low between 3000 to 9000 but there was a steady increase around 2010 and significantly average car price increased from  year 2015 to 2020. The potential reason of increase in car prices in UK might be due to advancement in technology, features, emerging of electric and hybrid vehicles, impact of Brexit economic event, inflation rates and shift in consumer preference to have luxury and SUV vehicles.
The Pearson correlation test was done to test the hypothesis Null Hypothesis (H0): Car age does not significantly impact car price and Alternative Hypothesis (H1): Car age significantly impacts car price. The p-value is 0.0 and correlation coefficient is -0.496 indicating  a moderate negative correlation and that car age significantly impacts car price. To prove the hypothesis scatter plots was plotted which illustrates the trend that car age increases, the price tends to decrease and newer cars tends to have higher price exceeding 100,000 while older cars tend to have lower prices below 20,000. This is useful to UK automotive industry in determine the depreciation trends for car models, dealers can use this to set price accordingly, selling older inventory faster through discounts and offering competitive price of newer cars.
The bar chart for fuel preferences by brand shows strong preference of diesel vehicles by Mercedes-Benz (70.1%), Vauxhall (79.1%), and Volkswagen (56.5%) due to consumer choices shifted towards diesel engines because of fuel efficiency while Audi (47.3%), BMW (65.5%), Ford (67.7%), Hyundai (59.4%), Skoda (66.5%), and Toyota (60.6%) showed high preference for petrol vehicles. On the other hand, hybrid vehicles are manufactured by Toyota (7.4%) and Hyundai (7.1%) while electric and other fuel type showed minimal presence reflecting to slow shift to electric vehicles. 
The bar chart of fuel and transmission preferences by brand gives valuable insights to the UK automotive industry. Firstly, the manufactures can use these combined insights to segment the market according to the high preferences for semi-automatic and diesel cars. Secondly, focusing on developing vehicles by combing the innovations and preferred choices. Thirdly, enhancing the marketing strategies by attracting the buyers through campaigns and show the benefits of the features in the vehicles. Lastly, dealers can manage their stock by keeping most preferred and demanded vehicles and adjusting the stock according to changes in market trends. This combined technique establish that the UK automotive industry stays competitive, creative, and receptive to changing market fluctuation.
The brand like BMW(133.064) and Mercedes-Benz(130.541) car buyer must pay higher tax likely because of larger engine size and luxury segment cars while Vauxhall and Audi also comes under high category of tax with 129.933 and 127.954 respectively. The Brands such as  Skoda, Volkswagen, and Toyota has lower tax due to their fuel-efficient and environmentally friendly cars. This insight is valuable for car manufacturers in a way that they can explore the high tax car models and try to develop their models with lower emission and shift in consumer preference towards  various brands can be understood. Also, policymakers can give incentives to regulate and adjust tax to promote the environmentally friendly cars.
The petrol  fuel type was at its peak in year 2000 but gradually started declining over the years due to increased popularity of diesel fuel type in early 2000s and become most relevant choice in year 2015 and started declining after 2015 because of growing demand for electric and hybrid fuel type cars. On the other hand, manual transmission type cars was very popular all over the years while automatic cars was steadily rising over time with fluctuations due to emerges of semi-automatic cars which where most popular after 2015. This trends of fuel and transmission type over the years is useful to the UK Automotive Industry in understanding a shift towards cleaner technologies and eco-friendly options such as electric and hybrid. The production process can be focused on developing hybrid and electric vehicles meeting growing market demand with the aim of reducing carbon emissions. The shift in consumer preference can be known and accordingly manufacturers can align with market positioning and buyers need. Also, government can use this to make policy on subsidies , taxes and investments and companies can focus on innovating vehicle features, designs and reduce emission by making models more fuel efficient and making models appealing to buyers.
The most fuel-efficient car models includes hybrid and electric cars such as BMW i3, Hyundai Ioniq, Chevrolet Ampera, Toyota Prius, and Mercedes-Benz C Class as these cars models have high mpg value which means that it can travel more distance per unit of fuel and have smaller engine size. The least fuel-efficient car models such as Ford Mustang, Audi RS3, Toyota Supra, BMW M4, and Mercedes G Class have larger engine size with low mpg value which mean these models require more fuel. The car manufacturers can focus on optimise the balance between engine size and fuel efficiency in cars to encourage the adoption of environmentally friendly vehicle and reduce carbon emission. It also has economic advantages such as reduction in fuel consumption also leads to less use of fossil fuels and saving cost of buyers.
The key summary of finding, insights, and recommendations to UK automotive industry.  In the brand distribution, it was found that ford, Volkswagen, and Vauxhall are leading brand in terms of market share while price distribution showed that most of vehicles were prices £5,000 and £15,000. The trend in fuel type showed clear shift from petrol and diesel cars to electric and hybrid cars whereas in trends of transmission type automatic and manual dominates car market. The correlation between various variables were discussed in which price and mileage had negative correlation which means cars having higher mileage is cheaper while price and engine size had positive correlation meaning larger engine size will have increase car price. The univariate and multivariate time series forecasting showed trends of future car price which tends to be fluctuating and declining over years.
The recommendations to UK automotive industry is to adopt flexible pricing strategies which can help in considering the market fluctuations, focus on developing electric and hybrid cars due to consumer increased preference in environmentally friendly options. Use of anomaly detection in monitoring and planning for the occurrence of market disruptions. Also, adapt the changing consumer demand by investing more on affordable and budget-friendly vehicles with the wide range of customisation and flexibility, this can be done by using advanced models and techniques to do continuous forecasting which helps in understanding the market demand and consumer purchasing pattern.
